README.md, before:

# Power BI data model documentation tool
It's a simple tool to generate documentation of a Power BI data model. It uses Python to extract the data model information and can generate various types of documentations, such as [these examples](https://github.com/eduazzolin/power-bi-data-model-documentor/blob/main/examples).

## Download
1. Download the [latest executable release](https://github.com/eduazzolin/power-bi-data-model-docs/releases/download/1.2/Power-BI-Data-Model-Docs.exe).
2. Run the executable file and follow the instructions. No installation is required.

## Features
- Generates a HTML file documentations for a data model.
- Generates a simplified markdown file with the data model information.
- Generates a CSV or Excel file with all the measures of the data model.
- Generates a CSV or Excel file with all the columns and an indicator of its usage in the data model. (beta)
- Can compare two data models.
- Can connect to running Power BI Desktop instances or use a model.bim file.

![Screenshot_1](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0c356357-d9b0-4996-9774-54cf094b35a4)

## Contributing
Feel free to contribute to this project by opening an issue or a pull request to the dev branch. I'm open to suggestions and improvements. To create new forms of exporting the data model documentation, you just need to use the following classes and methods:
```python
from model.data_model import DataModel

# Create a model object:
model = DataModel('./model.bim', skip_loading=True)

# Your data model object is now ready to be used:
for table in model.tables:
    print(f'The table {table.name} has the following columns:')
    for column in table.table_itens:
        print(f'  - {column.name}')
    print('\n')
```

Commit message:

feat/build files and readme

README.md, after:

# Power BI data model documentation tool

It's a simple tool to generate documentation of a Power BI data model. It uses Python to extract the data model information and can generate various types of documentations, such
as [these examples](https://github.com/eduazzolin/power-bi-data-model-documentor/blob/main/examples).

## Download

1. Download the [latest executable release](https://github.com/eduazzolin/power-bi-data-model-docs/releases/download/1.2/Power-BI-Data-Model-Docs.exe).
2. Run the executable file and follow the instructions. No installation is required.

## Features

- Generates a HTML file documentations for a data model.
- Generates a simplified markdown file with the data model information.
- Generates a CSV or Excel file with all the measures of the data model.
- Generates a CSV or Excel file with all the columns and an indicator of its usage in the data model. (beta)
- Can compare two data models.
- Can connect to running Power BI Desktop instances or use a model.bim file.

![Screenshot_1](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0c356357-d9b0-4996-9774-54cf094b35a4)

## Contributing

Feel free to contribute to this project by opening an issue or a pull request to the dev branch. I'm open to suggestions and improvements. To create new forms of exporting the data model documentation, you just need to use the following classes and
methods:

```python
from model.data_model import DataModel

# Create a model object:
model = DataModel('./model.bim', skip_loading=True)

# Your data model object is now ready to be used:
for table in model.tables:
    print(f'The table {table.name} has the following columns:')
    for column in table.table_itens:
        print(f'  - {column.name}')
    print('\n')
```

# How to build

- Make sure you are using a venv and that the requirements.txt are installed, otherwise all the packages from your machine will be included;
- Run the following command: ``pyinstaller main.spec``
- It'll take around 5 minutes and then the .exe file will be at ./dist
